I"<p>Rhetoric and Representation in the Southern Life History Project aims to create a completely digital-borne method of scholarship through a digital book. This project, which began by using theFederal Writers’ Project Papers from Wilson Library’s Special Collections to teach an ENGL 105 class so students could conduct research and create metadata about the life histories (similar to what we may now call ‘Oral Histories’) located in that collection. This evolved into the The Layered Lives project, where Dr. Rivard, alongside Dr. Arnold and Dr. Tilton (both at University of Richmond), look at how these life histories challenged and changed what it meant to be in the South. By compiling the documents into plain text, turning the documents’ metadata to maps to see trends, they are able to visualize and uncover the ‘rhetorical ecology’ of the writing process of these life histories. This digital research analyzes and visualizes how the South was paint through the black/white binary and how indigenous, immigrant, and other writers of colors were excluded. Below is the abstract for the Layered Lives: Rhetoric and Representation in the Southern Life History Project, provided by Dr. Rivard: “The people, all the people, must be known, they must be heard,” proclaimed William T. Couch in 1939 from Chapel Hill. A respected editor turned part-time government bureaucrat, Couch served as both director of the University of North Carolina Press and the New Deal’s Federal Writers’ Project (FWP) Southern Life History Project. As economic turmoil engulfed the nation, his concern for the voiceless led to the development of a new form of documentary expression called a “life history,” oral interviews of everyday people’s life experiences captured in writing by federal workers. Layered Lives: Rhetoric and Representation in the Southern Life History Project recovers the history of the SLHP and their efforts to reconfigure the life history method. We employ an interdisciplinary approach that combines close readings of archival material with computational methods that analyze pattern across the collection. The digital platform gives readers an opportunity to explore archival materials and data alongside our argument, which opens up new forms of reading and interaction in the humanities. We address five questions: What were the motivating factors behind the creation of the SLHP? How did the SLHP come into formation? How did the project come to define the form of a life history and who was capable of writing them? Who was represented in the life histories and why? What are the legacies of the SLHP? In addressing these questions, we demonstrate key points in the struggle over what counted as social knowledge, how to accurately represent social conditions, and who could produce such knowledge.</p>
:ET